What was tonight in Spanish, tonight?
Esta noche.
Esta noche, good, this night.
And we can use this as a hook to work out the other this is and that's.
and these and those that we might need.
So esta noche which tells us that noche is what kind of noun?
What gender?
Feminine.
Good.
And what if you wanted to say that night?
What do you do to Esther to get that?
Essa.
Good.
Take away the T.
So that night
Esa noche esa noche and those nights noches good
The word for man is hombre.
H-O-M-B-R-E.
Hombre.
Ombre.
Good.
How would you say this man?
Este hombre.
You think hombre is a feminine word?
Good.
That man.
You can also say el hombre este, el hombre ese, to say this man or that man in Spanish.
which might be a structure taken from Arabic because in Arabic you don't really have to be in the present tense.
So you can't say
this man because you would understand from it that this is a man.
So in in Arabic it's the same.
Rogulda, el hombre este
As I mentioned before, when languages come into contact, like the 800 years between Spanish and Arabic, they don't just share vocabulary.
How would you say these men?
Estos hombres.
So with este we have the e of el, el hombre, este hombre.
And with estos, we have the os of los, los hombres, estos hombres.
These men.
How about those men?
Esos hombres.
Good.
So this means that we have este and esta for this when we're referring to a masculine noun or a feminine noun.
But sometimes we say this just generally.
No?
Oh I can't believe this.
We don't mean a specific noun when we say I can't believe this.
So we have like a new this that is not masculine or feminine and that one is esto
So kreer is to believe.
Creer with two E's.
How would you say I don't believe this?
No creo esto.
Good.
I don't believe this.
How would you say I don't like anything more than this?
In Spanish you will say nothing pleases me more than this.
Nothing pleases me more than this.
I don't like anything more than this
Nada me gusta más que esto.
Nada me gusta más que esto
How would you say nothing pleased me more than that?
I didn't like anything more than that.
Nothing pleased me more than that.
Nada me gusta.
Nothing pleased me.
Nada me gusto más
Good.
Nothing pleased me more than that.
I didn't like anything more than that.
Nada me gusto más que eso.
Tan, tan, in Spanish means so, like in the sense of soul tired.
Tan, T-A-N.
How would you say so tight?
Good.
So how would you say I was so tired?
And we mean a line in time
Estaba tan cansado.
And you being feminine?
Cansada.
Good.
Estaba tan cansada.
What if you wanted to say we were so tired that we slept all day?
So, first bit is we were so tired.
Let's be a masculine or mixed group.
We were so tired.
Tan cansado.
Cansados.
Good.
So what is this that?
Que?
Que estábamos tan cansados que we slept all day.
Now all day is all the day.
You remember how it's day?
Dia.
And the day.
La dia.
It would be, but.
El dia.
It ends in A but it's masculine.
So all day is all the day.
How would it be?
Toda?
It's masculine.
Todo el tia.
We were so tired that we slept all day.
Estábamos tan cansados que dormimos todo el día.
Very good.
Todo el día.
So dormimos could be we slept or we sleep.
We know it's the same in the present.
But estábamos tan cansados gives us our context so we understand that of course it refers to past
How would you say we were so tired when we arrived that we slept all day?
So we were so tired.
When we arrived, that we slept all day
Good.
Estábamos tan cansados cuando llegamos que dormimos todo el día.
So here in this sentence we have ylegamos and dormimos that could be past or present.
No?
But
Brings us into the context right from the beginning.
So we said that when was
Quando Quando and how much is Quanto with a T Quanto Quanto Quanto How do you say again like another time
Otra vez.
Good.
So you could say how many times?
How would that be?
How many times?
Good, we know it's feminine because we said others.
and not otro vez.
So we can if we have a word like this where it's not obvious what is the gender, we need to look back to somewhere that we used it.
Otra vez?
Oh okay it's feminine.
Quantas veces.
Good
How would you say I don't know how many times I visited him?
I don't know how many times I visited him
No sé quantas veses I visited him.
Lovite.
No se quantas veses lo visite.
I don't know how many times they visited him.
Oh him.
Lo visitaron.
Good.
No sé quantas vesses lo visitaron.
And what if you wanted to say, I don't know how many times they visited her?
No sé quantas veces la visitaron.
Good.